the United Nations Security Council is
convening to vote on a draft resolution
calling for the scaling up of
humanitarian Aid deliveries in the
besieged Gaza Strip the proposal by the
United Arab Emirates is also calling for
an urgent and sustained end of
hostilities to allow safe and unhindered
humanitarian access to Gaza now this
vote has been delayed multiple times
after requests by the United States the
US Deputy ambassador to the United
Nations says that they will only support
the draft resolution if specific changes
are
made morning still working it still
hoping to get to uh you know to be able
to support it so we're not there are you
looking for changes in the text well
there need to be some things in the text
that would make it worthy of our support
right now we're still working it so
Gabriel alzando joins us from the United
Nations Headquarters Gabriel help us
wrap our heads around this is this
primarily a draft resolution about
stopping the fighting whatever the
language might be around that whether
it's a ceasefire I I think think it
won't be or pause in fighting or
humanitarian pause is it about stopping
the fighting or is it about mostly
increasing the level of Aid that goes to
Gaza the second part of that this is a
resolution that was uh basically
supported and drafted by the United Arab
Emirates with the support of other
member states but uh it is a resolution
that solely really focuses on
humanitarian Aid it's not a political uh
resolution at all uh the UAE Ambassador
has been repeating that over and over
and over again that this is about
scaling up Aid into Gaza quickly and
immediately and distributing it quickly
and immediately to those that need it
now there whole part about ceasefire
there's no ceasefire in this resolution
but in order to do this it's got to be
safe for on the ground there and that is
why they initially called for a
cessation of hostilities the US said we
won't go for that so they changed to
suspension of hostilities because you
cannot have bombardment and also try to
get the massive amounts of Aid out so
but this is about humanitarian efforts
and that's why uh the us if it's a big
if of course vetos this like they have
in two other Security Council resolution
since October 7th it would look quite
bad on the United States quite frankly
and so uh but specifically answer your
question this is a humanitarian
resolution that is being considered so
what is the US supposed to in the
language if it's all humanitarian and
the US has been calling for increasing
humanitarian Aid they said you know as
as all the way to the top uh Joe Biden
has said that there needs to be more
humanitarian Aid going into Gaza so what
could the US be opposed to in this
text who is organizing it is a simple
answer right now all the aid going in is
wholly or mostly controlled by Israel
and so Aid organizations have insinuated
that Israel could be slowing that Aid
down and they're deciding how many
trucks get in how quickly they inspect
trucks to get in what gets in this
resolution says no no no more of that
this resolution says if passed uh it
would be the United Nations that would
be in charge of or a United Nations
appointed uh body or persons in charge
of getting that Aid in and the United
Nations would probably do it a lot
faster and at a lot bigger capacity than
what Israel is doing it that's what uh
people that support this
resolution believe right and so that is
what Israel is opposed to they would
essentially lose power on how they can
slow down or speed up Aid into Gaza it
would be up to the United Nations and
that is what Israel we think is opposed
to and that is what we think the United
States is is trying to change the
language on how and who specifically uh
monitors the aid coming in and who gets
it into the country and decides how much
and how quickly it gets into Gaza that
is a simple answer to that question
Gabriel just before I let you go it's
122 p.m. where you are it's 18:22 GMT
any word on timing when we might see if
we will see a vote on this today at the
UN Security
Council well I can tell you it was
supposed to be about 2 and a half hours
ago that's what we thought but and it
was supposed to be on Wednesday then it
was Tuesday then I'm sorry Monday
Tuesday Wednesday now we're at Thursday
short answer is we don't know we're
hearing that they're going to go back
into Clos consultations in about an hour
and a half from now perhaps talking
about Gaza will they come out of those
negotiations with a deal that they can
vote on will they have a new draft
resolution simple answer is we don't
know we're standing by but the things
are changing literally by the minute all
right thanks for that it was a little
hard to follow but we get it now thank
you very much Gabriel Alando reporting
from the the UN headquarters in New York
big question mark there about whether or
not we'll see a vote today at the UN
Security Council on this draft
resolution thank you Gabe